Articles 


Should Every Man be an Island?
Island number and population size for popular benchmark functions

See [3, 29] for speed-up analysis.

"These studies show a continued interest in population size
and island number. Taken together, they recommend first
determining the smallest population size, n, that can make
progress on the problem of interest. Next, create as many
islands, m, with n individuals per island as time and compu-
tational power allow. Finally, run this setup with no more
than 5% of the population migrating, and migration occur-
ring no more than once every 5 generations. How well this
rule generalizes, or if there exists an adaptive algorithm that
unequivocally beats it remains unknown. We aim to evalu-
ate population size and island number while holding migra-
tion size and interval constant in a non-adaptive GA"

Fernandez et al. [13] finds topology to have
little effect on island-model genetic programming, but ring
and random topologies perform slightly better than mesh
topologies.

In our implementation,
the top 5% of the population (rounded up to the next largest
whole number) migrates once every 10 generations.

Multiple islands perform better on all
benchmarks compared to single-population models


we find that island-model
performance is optimal with surprisingly few individuals per
island

We hypothesize that emIsland ’s superior performance is
due to maintenance of diversity and preservation of fit indi-
viduals. Though migration occurs every generation in emIs-
land, the low connectivity prevents relatively fit individuals
from quickly dominating all the islands. For example, it
would take one individual 64 generations to reach every island in the 64-island emIsland due to the topology of the
one-directional ring. Fit individuals are preserved due to the
fact that a mutant or child of crossover takes over an island
only if its fitness is superior to the individual already on the
island. These hypotheses will be investigated in future work.
